when I look at an inn I see him lying to
himself much more than you lies to the
public he can never admit that he's
wrong he can never never admit that he's
lying
he can never really accept that it's his
fault you have this tragic contradiction
where he pretends to be light-hearted he
pretends to be a comedian but the
reality of who he is is this overly
harsh castigating moralizing punitive
authoritarian character he hates himself
he hates humanity he's constantly
including short bursts of brutal and
erratic violence in his videos for no
reason and it's not clear if he finds
this therapeutic himself or if this is
meant to shock or disgust the audience
he's really fiddling while Rome burns
and that's that's been the case he's
celebrating he's exalting in his own
rumination at every stage of his of his
story so it's a very sad spectacle but
one that as I say makes me reflect on
meaningful things in my own life and I
think meaningful philosophical questions
for for us all I had been intending to
make a video talking about truth and
lies and honesty and the meaning of
these things in my own life the ways in
which initia kneel your pattern of being
both publicly and privately dishonest
makes me reflect on these philosophical
questions my own life but you know my
girlfriend asked me a very simple
question that's probably a lot more
relatable for you in the audience and
maybe more useful for you to hear the
answer to a girlfriend asked me why do
you care about Anacin at all why are you
interested why are you still interested
in following this story or in making
videos discussing this story indeed some
of you support me on patreon might want
to know why are you not reading
Aristotle instead why
you're making more YouTube videos about
politics it's all well believe it or not
in some ways what's rewarding and
interesting to me in examining and it's
Ian's choices in life is quite similar
to the sense of dramatic tension I have
in reading the political philosophy of
Aristotle some of you will relate to
that some of you won't when I read
history when I read political philosophy
and even sometimes when I read overtly
political fiction there's a sense of
tension for me as a reader that's not
created intentionally by the author
but that arises from my awareness that
if I were in the historical situation if
I were in the hypothetical situation
being prevented I would do the exact
opposite of what the character from the
book is TWIC so I mean I don't watch
horror movies but I think that's kind of
like the sense of somebody sitting in
the audience at a horror movie saying no
no no don't open the door don't do that
you know do do the exact opposite of
what the characters are inevitably going
to do um in a reasonably profound way
that's how I feel in watching a
nisshin's life fall apart again and
again I'm looking at a guy who has quite
a long list of things in common with me
you know I probably discovered his
YouTube channel around the time I was
newly divorced and he was divorced he's
now gone on to remarry I guess I in
effect have also gone on to receive um
an isiand was one of the absolute first
guys to come here on YouTube and do the
the vegetarian advocacy thing an in was
absolutely the original voice of the
vegetarian versus anti vegetarian debate
a lot of you will not remember that many
many years ago anisia debated
vegetarianism with the amazing atheist
and that was really part of the creation
of this whole genre of videos that I
spent five years of my life in I'm vegan
retina vegetarian but nevertheless he's
one of the guys who defined that that
genre and that was part of the the
ascent to fame not just of a
and the amazing atheist but of YouTube
itself as a platform it was really
showing people hey this is a type of
self-expression this is a type of debate
and this is a type of political activism
or advocacy for a cause that hadn't
existed in the world before that didn't
exist on cable TV news it didn't exist
on you know talk radio this was
something new and different and it
really is in that category that I've
lived my life what category do we mean I
basically sit down here and do overly
honest monologues about my life and the
things I care about even if it's even if
it's something relatively dry and
academic like Aristotle I mean that's
what I've got to offer I'm not an expert
in in ancient Greek really it's my it's
it's the emotion and the honesty and the
immediacy I bring to it that makes my
commentary on the philosophy of
Aristotle worth worth hearing more than
its any any technical expertise I bring
to that field you know I make no false
pretensions about that but across the
board whether I'm talking with my sex
life or otherwise and I mean if you've
been watching the cheat YouTube channel
for a long time you guys know I also
live very much in the same kind of
gilded cage that it is Ian lives in
because YouTube really has been for the
past five years my career I know it may
sound absurd it's not a choice I made
when I started doing this I had a very
very different career in myself but um
many other things didn't work out and
YouTube did now I'm in the position to
say at this point I literally pay my
rent with the income from YouTube and
from my donors on patreon and even
though my rent is very modest as you can
guess from the echoing sound that's in
this apartment you know my rent is cheap
but nevertheless that really puts me in
a rare class of people who gets to come
on camera and talk about their feelings
and talk about politics and earn money
doing it and earn enough to pay their
rent so it's a hobby that in some ways
took over my life as other ambitions in
my life became impossible to pursue
long story short so there are many
different ways in which I can
sympathetically relate to anisia I'm
vegan he's vegetarian
we were both divorced and we both have
the strange mix of opportunities and
hopelessness of being stuck in this
youtube format as a career there's a lot
I can relate to there and of course he
and I both have the sexual opportunities
that YouTube micro Fame presents to you
I know a lot of you won't believe me but
it doesn't matter if there's only one
woman out of a thousand who finds me
attractive YouTube is exactly the sort
of venue where that one woman out of a
thousand will get in touch with you and
that can change your life and I think
it's fair to say in the case of someone
like anisia you can see the way in which
it can uh do a cupped and devastate your
life he's really fiddling while Rome
burns and that's that's been the case
he's celebrating he's exalting in his
own ruination at every stage of his of
his story so it's a very sad spectacle
but one that as I say makes me reflect
on meaningful things in my own life and
I think meaningful philosophical
questions for for us all so yeah there's
this tremendous sense of tension for me
in examining any given crossroads in his
life and feeling the same way I do when
I see Aristotle making excuses for
slavery like Aristotle he tells you
what's wrong with slavery six different
ways and then in his conclusion he says
like well so slavery is wrong but you
know it's necessary for society so we're
gonna do it anyway so here's an excuse
for no no no no if I were writing this
book
you know I'd do the opposite and mail
thing I mean Aristotle didn't know how
famous he'd be after his death I would
literally be think about how the whole
history of the world would be different
if you'd come to the conclusion that you
yourself fellow tonight that's up oh the
strange dramatic tension Aristotle also
gives you a complete
the damning argument against monarchy
which could have been much more
influential historically but he can't go
all the way with it because he's in a
situation where he's personally
dependent on Alexander the Great he's
personally a friend of Alexander the
Great as his client and Alexander the
Great's father was a patron of
Aristotle's father before it's a complex
political situation and whether or not
he's forced to compromise he chooses to
compromise and I'm sitting here on the
edge of my seat feeling this sense of
tension and dread because if I were in
Aristotle's position as an author or as
a political leader or political activist
in a sense I should be doing the exact
opposite when I look at an in I see him
lying to himself much more than he lies
to the public
you know he's intensely passionate about
delivering to you this message that he
couldn't possibly be happier with the
fact that the woman he married now
describes herself as a man that he
couldn't possibly be happier with the
fact that she's having surgery to
actually alter her body so that she
looks less like a woman and looks more
like a man we have many indications many
cracks in the facade indicating that no
of course he's desperately unhappy with
that and apparently he directly said to
her and Sarah the obvious truth that
really he wants to be in a relationship
with a biological woman who looks and
acts like a biological woman that he one
of his reasons for wanting this
three-way relationship was to begin a
relationship with a woman who had the
body of a woman as his wife goes through
the transition to becoming his husband
apparently you know both a physical
surgical and psychological or behavioral
change so you know this is not even the
most dramatic example possible if I were
in his situation I'd be doing the exact
opposite
I wouldn't be lying to myself or the
public I wouldn't be lying to my wife or
husband in this way there's this weird
rattling tragical quality even as he's
smiling intently at the camera even as
he's insisting passionately that his
marriage is the happiest marriage
possible and it's wonderful you can see
that it's killing him you can see the
contradictions he lives with and then of
course it's not surprising he's somewhat
violently acts out now what I've just
said is probably more sympathetic than
anything I've ever heard anyone else say
on the internet either in writing or you
know in a YouTube video in the YouTube
monologue I said many times on this
channel sympathy is an analytical tool
it's not worthwhile to sympathize with
someone just for the sake of that
sympathy what's really worthwhile is to
use sympathy as a way of understanding
others understanding the problems
they're facing and under understanding
ourselves initia he's the guy who
invented the YouTube vegan debate the
ethical debate about veganism he's a guy
who to some extent invented or redefined
this whole earnest monologue genre on
the platform and he's a guy who for
better and for worse you know lived you
know by lived by trying to convince
himself that he wasn't the only one who
found his sense of humor funny and of
course the greatest tragedy of all is
that almost nobody else appreciates his
sensory work except for him I'm not
gonna say he's never had a video I found
funny but I would guess that fewer than
one out of a hundred of his videos or to
my taste or to anyone else's taste but
his own
he does proves many many hundreds of
videos so I know once in a while he has
a head once in a while he has something
that really makes people laugh but again
you have this tragic contradiction where
he pretends to be light-hearted he
pretends to be a comedian but the
reality of who he is is this overly
harsh castigating moralizing punitive
authoritarian character he hates himself
he hates humanity he's constantly
including short bursts of brutal and
erratic violence in his videos for no
reason and it's not clear if he finds
this therapeutic himself or if this is
meant to shock or disgust the audience
or if he feels any sense of disgust
himself you know but again it's almost
as if his frustration with his own lack
of a sense of humor you know and when
he's chosen to play the role of the
professional comedian this leads to
again these kinds of violent
contradictions in acting out parallel to
his stated philosophical commitment to
being absolutely honest at all times
when he's overtly flagrantly been caught
lying again and again and again and he
doesn't respond to that by being humbled
or feeling humiliated even during some
of the most dramatic and bizarre you
know twists and turns in the road when
his current wife Lainie briefly moved
out and was she filed divorce paperwork
against him and someone he can never
admit that he's wrong he can never never
admit that he's lying he can never
really accept that it's his fault you
know the whole world is his canvas and
yet he's obsessed with using that canvas
to paint a flattering portrait of
himself so that is short is the
character of a nishan someone who might
have a few shallow things in common with
on the surface but where my alienation
from him is so profound it's so extreme
I have so little in common with him when
you move past that surface that you know
for me he's really an instructive
glimpse into a whole side of human
nature that I find so alien that I can
barely admit to myself it really exists
[Music]